# C10.Grouping and Model Fitting

We seek to find all the lines represented by a set of tokens. This problem is usually referred to as fitting, or sometimes as grouping. There are three
important sub-problems here: 

* If all the tokens agree on a model, what is the model?
* Which tokens contribute to a particular model, and which do not? 
* And how many instances of the model are there?

## 10.1 THE HOUGH TRANSFORM

One way to cluster tokens that could lie on the same structure is to record all the structures on which each token lies and then look for structures that get many votes.

## 10.2 FITTING LINES AND PLANES

### 10.2.1 Fitting a Single Line

#### least squares

**Wow**

This procedure has a long tradition (which is the only reason we describe it!), but has a substantial bias. Most readers will have seen this idea, but many will not be familiar with the problems that it leads to. For this approach, we represent a line as $y = ax + b$. At each data point, we have `(x_i, y_i)`; we decide to choose the line that best predicts the measured y coordinate for each measured x coordinate. This means we want to choose the line that minimizes:

$$\sum_{i}(y_i-ax_i-b)^2$$

It's not much help in vision applications!

=> we are counting vertical offsets from the line as errors, which means that near vertical lines lead to quiet large values of the error and quite funny fits. In fact, the process is so dependent on coordinate frame that it doesn't represent vertical lines at all.


Instead, we need to minimize $$\sum_i(ax_i+by_i+c)^2$$ subject to $a^2+b^2=1$.

### 10.2.2 Fitting Planes

plane: $ax+by+cz+d=0$
point: $\mathbf{x}_i=(x_i,y_i,z_i)$
distance: $(ax_i+by_i+cz_i+d)^2\;if\;a^2+b^2+c^2=1$

### 10.2.3 Fitting Multiple Lines


## 10.3 FITTING CURVED STRUCTURES


## 10.4 ROBUSTNESS

### 10.4.2 RANSAC: Searching for Good Points

RANSAC, RANdom SAmple Consensus

First, we choose a small subset of points and fit to that subset, and then we see how many other points fit to the resulting object.
We continue this process until we have a high probability of finding the structure we are looking for.

OR

Search for a random sample that leads to a fit on which many of the data points agree.


Three parameters:

* The number of samples required
* Telling whether a point is close
* The number of points that mush agree

## 10.5 FITTING USING PROBABILISTIC MODELS


## 10.7 MODEL SELECTION: WHICH MODEL IS THE BEST FIT?

* AIC: An Information Criterion
* Bayesian Methods and Schwartz’s BIC
* Description Length

### 10.7.1 Model Selection Using Cross-Validation

Given a sufficiently large training set, we could split the training set into two components, and use one to fit the model and the other the test the fit.
