# C18.Topics in Object Recognition

## 18.1.2 Current Strategies for Object Recognition

> Attaching a plausible set of features to a multiclass classifier, and then training the classifier with a set of examples for each class.

> All such recognizers can be described, rather broadly, as template matchers (where the template and matching cost are implicit in the classifier).


## 18.2 Feature Questions

### 18.2.1 Improving Current Image Features

* Coding: suppress small differences in appearance between patches, and identify patches that are distinctive or discriminative.

E.g, visual words <-> encode rich collection of image patches with a dictionary of examples.

* Polling: summarize information over neighborhoods to suppress the effects of small translations, scale errors, and the like.

E.g, SIFT/HOG features, histograms of visual words.


### 18.2.2 Other Kinds of Image Feature

> Generally, we could expect that contour features, shape features, and shading features might have some information about the nature of an observed object, but little is known about how to exploit this information.


### 18.4.3 Chunks of Meaning: Parts, Poselets, Objects, Phrases, and Scenes

* Visual phrases: notion that lies somewhere between an object and a scene.

Like,  a person riding a bicycle, dog laying on sofa, people drinking bottle ...

These phrases can be are much easier to detect than their component.


* Decoding: 
    - look at the pattern of detector responses for a given image and draw conclusions about what is correct
    - resolving what to report given a set of detector responses


































