# C4.Linear Filters

use weighted sums of pixel values using different patterns of weights to  smooth noise, find edges and other image patterns.


## 4.1 Linear filters and convolution

### Linear filters

$$\mathit{R_{ij}}=\frac{1}{(2k+1)^2}\sum_{u=i-k}^{i+k}\sum_{v=j-k}^{j+k}\mathit{F_{uv}}$$


* shift invariant:
meaning that the value of the output depends on the pattern in an image
neighborhood, rather than the position of the neighborhood
* linear:
meaning that the output for the sum of two images is the same as the sum of the outputs obtained for the images separately


### Symmetric Gaussian Kernel

$$\mathit{G_\sigma}(x,y)=\frac{1}{2\pi\sigma^2}exp(-\frac{(x^2+y^2)}{2\sigma^2})$$


## 4.2 shift invariant linear system

* Superposition

$$\mathit{R}(f+g)=\mathit{R}(f)+\mathit{R}(g)$$

* Scaling

$$R(kf)=kR(f)$$

* Shift invariance

the response to a translated stimulus is just a translation of the response to the stimulus


**The response of a shift invariant linear system to a stimulus is obtained by
convolution.**


## 4.5 Filter as templates

### 4.5.1 Convolution as a Dot Product

> We could scan the
image into a vector and the filter kernel into another vector in such a way that associated elements are in the same component. By inserting zeros as needed, we can ensure that these two vectors have the same dimension. Once this is done, the process of multiplying associated elements and summing is precisely the same as taking a dot product.

## 4.6 TECHNIQUE: NORMALIZED CORRELATION AND FINDING PATTERNS

normalized correlation

> By itself, this dot product is a poor way to find features because the
value might be large simply because the image region is bright. By analogy with
vectors, we are interested in the **cosine** of the angle between the filter vector and the image neighborhood vector.
This yields a value that is large and positive when the image region looks like
the filter kernel, and small and negative when the image region looks like a contrast-reversed version of the filter kernel.

## 4.7 TECHNIQUE: SCALE AND IMAGE PYRAMIDS

### 4.7.1 The Gaussian Pyramid

### 4.7.2 Applications of Scaled Representations

* Search over scale

    Find pattern in coarse images

* Spatial Search
    Coarse-to-fine matching

* Feature Tracking

    > One strategy for improving a set of features obtained
at a fine scale is to track features across scales to a coarser scale and accept only the
fine-scale features that have identifiable parents at a coarser scale.
can suppress features resulting from textured
regions (often referred to as noise) and features resulting from real noise.


## 4.8 Note

* Anisotropic Scaling
    Make sure the edges won't be smoothed to preserve the edges.